From Hanselman it's dot com
it's Hansel minutes or weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman and hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number nine. Recorded
February 27, 2006. Support for
Hanselman it's is provided by
automated QA and makers of
test complete providing automated testing
of windows.net framework, Java and
web applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by
Peter blom.com. Start with better
controls finish with better sites
online@peterblum.com. Support is also provided
by.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
about debugging by coincidence, debugging,
XML, serializers Ruby for.net fusion.
Yeah. And other things too.
Cool to mention here. Hi,
this is Carl Franklin and you're
listening to Hanselman it's show
number nine. I'm here with
Scott. Hi, Scott Hanselman. Hello,
Carl Franklin. How are you? What
are we going to talk
about today? Cut a couple
of random things and then
I want to talk about
programming by coincidence and my
buddy Patrick Caldwell's favorite subject
said with tongue firmly in
cheek debugging. Ah, good by
coincidence. Excellent. Yeah, but to
start with, I've got a
couple of cool things to
talk about two cool one
painful first cool. One is,
you know, how I, I
plug into my media center
PC using the media center
feature of the Xbox three
60. I do, or we
remote kind of remote desktop
into it, but you're using
a custom X-Box three 60
kind of remote desktop. OK.
You know, parts of the
user interface or remote desktop
parts. Aren't and you can't
browse the net. You can't
run I E right, right.
But there's this fellow named
anthonyPark@shrinkstir.com slash C I zero.
He looks very young. I
think that's a picture of
him last week before he
can, his beard came in.
Yeah. He's a, he's a
regular guy. And although he's
got a picture of himself
at 10 on his blog,
right. And he's got a
thing called M C E
browser. And basically this is
a, what you call a
browser with a 10 foot
interface. He's basically hosting I
E with big buttons and
the big MCE keyboard. And
allowing you to use your
media center PC from far
away and browse the net.
Yeah. It's pretty cool. I
especially like the telephone dial
sort of a keyboard interface
there, right? Because that, that
mirrors the same interface that
you've might have on your
remote control. Right? So he's
got snippets to let you
type in HTTP and www.com
faster, but you can browse
using just your normal control.
And because this is done
as a pure media center,
PC app, basically he's, he's
hosting IAE within this media
center HTML, and then the
resulting composite screen image is
remoted over to your Xbox
three 60, right? You can't,
you can then surf the
net on your Xbox three
60. Now this is not
designed for the Xbox three
60, but because the X-Box
three 60 has such rich
support for remoting into media
center. Suddenly I can browse
on my X-Box and that's
pretty sweet. And it's cool.
Yeah. I guess he's going
to be charging soon, but
it'll be like 10 bucks
and seriously took to browse
the web from my 37
inch LCD is going to
be awesome. Even just to
check the news occasionally, As
long as we're talking about
cool things, you know what
I just discovered like four
weeks ago. What's that? Slingbox,
Isn't that sweet. Yeah. I
had getting content all over
the place. Slingbox man. slingbox.com.
Yeah. Yeah. W w with
the stuff, whether it be
things that Clemens Vassar's throws
together, like his new television
or a Slingbox or remoting
video around, or using windows
media connect, you know, I
tell you if they would
just open up the Xbox
three 60 for video streaming,
you could, you know, use
the Slingbox with the Xbox
three 60. They must be
some reason they're afraid to
open up the Xbox three
60 video aspects to, to
the world. I think it's
probably some of the, you
know, the DRM rights management
stuff You don't want to
sell. What is essentially a
$1,200 PC for 300 bucks.
So Slingbox is a, for
those of you who don't
know Slingbox is one of
these things where you can
just connect this thing to
your cable box and a
PC, and then you can
log into your PC and
watch the TV and control
it. Yeah. My buddy, Greg
Hughes blogged about this last
september@shrinks.com slash CIJ. Greg Hughes
has got a lot of
stuff around moving video from
place to place and gadgetry
and stuff. And I guess
they sell this stuff, a
radio shack. Now the sandbox,
I mean, they've got a
good distribution deal And slingbox.com
is shrinks dries. It's C
I, I cool. So, yeah,
actually that's a very good
kind of segue to talk
about some of the problems
that I'm having, getting my
high definition experience to work
out. You know, I have
one of these Comcast cable
DVRs, digital video recorders. I
use the Motorola. Yeah, me
too. That's so same, same
one I have. Yeah. And
I'm, I'm having a heck
of a time with this
thing. It's just a, it
stutters, I get Phantom chunks
of, of a show, like
10 minutes of a show.
And then it'll say it's
been interrupted. And I just
went from a phase, a
phase two version to a
phase three. If you go
to Wikipedia, you can search
for Comcast DVR. There's apparently
three versions. I just upgraded
by just calling and complaining
to the phase three edition,
which doesn't include a DVI
out. So I couldn't plug
it into the DVI on
my, my LCD anymore. So
I had to go get
a DVI HTMI converter, a
little, little $25 widget, plug
it into the cable and
check this out. The Comcast
DVR won't output digital audio
in the 5.1 Dolby out
of the, out, out of
the optical. If it's plugged
into HTMI literally, I had
the thing plugged into two.
I'm listening to sound. I'm
hearing it at 5.1, the
big blue light on my
is turned on. I plug
in the HTMI adapter. It
stops and parts putting out
two channel Dolby, huh? Pull
it back out, pops back
to 5.1, where some reason
they stop outputting the 5.1
to the optical and they
start outputting it only from
HTMI now who listens to
audio out of their HTMI.
Right. Who uses the crap
speakers on their HDTV? Right.
So I actually had to
downgrade, I felt just last
week, I had to start
using the component out of
the Comcast. And now I've
got slightly degraded video because
of the cabling. Right. But
I've got 5.1 very frustrating
stuff. I'm getting, I've just
about had it with these
guys. This box is crap.
And I'm thinking I want
to go somewhere else, but
I don't want to satellite
hanging off the side of
my house and they don't
have decent two, two tuner
DVRs. Do they right now,
I guess there's a, there's
a TiVo direct TiVo for
direct TV, but it's a
couple of hundred bucks. And
they gave me the Comcast
DVR for free I'm unfamiliar
with those it's. I think
it's just a TiVo. It's
a high definition TiVo, but
I don't think it has
two tuners and it's TiVo
and TiVo has got that
whole kind of like pop
snap, crackle, pop thing with
a thumbs up in the
thumbnail. It's gonna have a
toy. I'm just not a
fan. But man, Intel HD
works this out where I
can just get a standard
two tuner high definition DVR.
It's not gonna happen for
me. Well, you know, you
can foresee that you're going
to have video cards with
HDTV inputs. So, you know,
inputs and outputs. So you'll
be able to record HDTV
with your computer before too
long. You gotta be able
to do it sooner or
later. Well, yeah, you can
take like the HTTV I'm
all in wonder from ATI.
There's a number of inexpensive
ones, but I just, somehow
I don't see my computer
deeply involved in my day
to day HDTV watching. I
really want to just plug
a cable in from the
wall, Unless, unless you dedicate
a computer to that process,
which we really have to
do, you know? Right. And
then I would need two
tuners. Now that I've kind
of experienced the two tuners
watching one, you know, watching
one show or taping two
shows at the same time,
I've actually seen these. I've
actually seen multi, I've seen
eight tuner cards, right. Except
the, the HDTV cards for
the most part, I believe
pull the HDTV off of
the air. Not off of
the Comcast yet. So we're
going to have to wait
until the next COVID. Yeah.
That's what I'm saying. That's
what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah.
The next version of media
center, I guess, supports cable
cards. So I can get
that special card from exactly
the cable company. Alright. We
talked a little bit about
the Ruby language on the
show. A couple of couple
of shows ago, you got
some more interesting things to
talk about. Yeah. We're not
done. And I think we're
going to continue to hear
more and more about Ruby.
Ruby is, is a really
interesting language one, because I
think it's becoming a new
second language for, for dotnet
folks. You know, the real
hardcore comp side people, computer
science people say, you know,
always try to learn more
and more languages don't limit
yourself to Phoebe or C-sharp.
And they'll sometimes they'll say,
go learn lists or go
learn Pearl or something like
that. But, but Ruby is
a very comfortable, accessible language
to people that are familiar
with, with.net and, and kind
of standard old practices. But
it is still, you know,
an interpreted language and it's
a, a very different world
than the.net world. But there's
this fellow John Lamb, you may
know of him. I unknown.com
or shrinks or.com/cig, who is
building what he calls the
Ruby CLR. And it's really
interesting because it's important to
note that he's not porting
Ruby the language in the
way that most dotnet people
are used to hearing about
a new language, like you
know about iron Python. Right?
I do. So it's a
compiler that takes Python and
makes IRL. Yep. Okay. So
when you hear Ruby CLR,
you kind of think, well,
maybe he's taking Ruby and
turning it into IOL. What
he's doing is he's providing
a bridge so that Ruby
can call.net completely transparently Ruby
doesn't just care. It just
works. So it's interrupt. Exactly.
Exactly. It's Ruby interrupt, just
like common Robert's Ruby interrupt.
And he has actually got
a nontrivial windows forms, 2.0
application, actually a full RSS
reader written entirely in Ruby,
talking to windows forms to
O running it up. And
when you run this thing,
it works. It runs, it
looks just fine. It looks
like a windows app it's
fast. But if you look,
you got it in the
task manager, that's being run
by Ruby dot exe. Wow.
Open it up with process
Explorer. You see that dot
nets loaded up inside there
and he's managing the back
and forth. Wow. Pretty crazy.
You know, John's a brilliant
guy. He's one of those
guys. Who's so brilliant. It
hurts to talk to him.
Cause I don't like to
feel stupid, but I do
so try my job someday.
Yeah. He's doing some really
neat stuff. He's implementing things
like they using pattern. And
when he calls auto dispose,
he's getting interfaces working. He's
got native Ruby array binding.
Yeah. I don't know if
this is something I would
use in my everyday life,
but when it starts, when
I start thinking about better
ways to integrate Ruby testing
and some of the water,
the Rab application testing in
Ruby, the water work that
we're doing, right. We usually
do it where.net pole from
Ruby will have Ruby write
to a file or we'll
have, we'll listen to Ruby,
pulling data out at the,
the console. And then we'll
just look that that's a
very poor man's integration. He
has got a very kind
of first class integration where
dotnet objects and Ruby objects
are just living together in
harmony and something to definitely
to watch what he's doing
there. Even if you don't
find yourself using it. Very
cool. Yeah, totally. So what
was this a blog Most
on view state user key
that you did recently? Yeah,
No, actually this was a
little while ago, but it
keeps coming up. So view
state is this, is this
pariah, right? I mean, when
you think of G state,
you think this is, this
is evil, right? Black box.
Exactly. It's a big, giant
blob of crap that comes
by in my, a hidden
form field. And, and all
you want to do is
make it go away and
make it smaller. Right. And
still work. And no one
really knows kind of what
it does or they kind
of know that it does,
but they just, they, they
know, they know they don't
like it Also very dependent
on lots of little processes
that have to happen. Exactly.
It's very Rube Goldberg even.
Right. So is that a
word Rube Goldberg? I think
that is a word, you
know, Rube Goldberg. Right? Right.
Sure. The mouse trap game
is the expression of Rube
Goldberg machines. Exactly. So like,
you know, when for view
state to work, you know,
it must be a Tuesday
and you must be on
one foot and then the
little man will jump off
of his leg and into
the pool and then the
mouse will get the cheese.
And then the view state
we'll come back with an
exception. It all works magically.
So, so view state is
the state of the view,
right? Let's say I had
a webpage with a single
button on it in a
single text box. And I
typed in Fu and I
click on the button. Yeah.
And then we do, what's
called a post-bac right. We
do a forum post, but
we post back to the
page that we came from.
So it's not only going
to send back what's in
the text box, it's going
to send back what was
in the text box when
it sent me the page
in the first place. Yeah.
So if I sent you
a text box with Fu
I erase Fu I type
in bar, and then I
hit the button, I'm going
to send back foo and
bar. And this allows.net to
basically simulate a state when
there isn't a state. Right.
Basically it gives you things
like a text changed event,
right? So that means duplication.
There's a lot of duplicated
data and that's why we
want to sometimes turn view
state off in certain instances
when we don't need it.
But there's a number of
things that affect your state,
particularly that what's called the
machine key. The machine key
is a configuration section in
the web dot config. And
this is a kind of
a key that is used
along with whatever cryptography method
that you choose for trying
to protect the view state,
along with your forms, authentication
ticket, Some sort of unique
identifier to that machine, like
a network. Exactly. It's a
big, giant, long number. It's
kind of like the Mac
address, Mac address. Yeah. And
there's also a thing called
enabled view state Mac, which
ties the view state in
some small way to your
Mac, all of these ways,
hoping to detect people doing
what I call TiVo attacks
basically on record and replay
attacks. Yeah. So there's another
kind of little known feature
within view state that's called
the view state user key.
This is a user specific
key, not a machine specific
key. So I could say
if you'd logged in Carl
via farm's authentication, I know
your name and I can
go and say a user.identity.name.
And I could put that
inside of page dot view,
state, user key. So then
your view state is not
just married to the machine,
so you couldn't record and
replay it then, but it's
also married to your forms,
auth cookie, and yeah. And
that doesn't necessarily mean that
a person can't decode and
read the view state, but
it does mean that they
can't create their own. It
makes view, state more cryptographically.
Significant. You say, it's not
somewhere that you want to
put information, that's private, but
it's definitely a place that
you can store information. That's
not private, but you may
need to look at later.
Okay. So this view state
user key is a really,
if you're going to be
in the middle of it
automatically enrolling a user into
a site. So imagine that
you come to a site
and the person's anonymous and
they're going to be enrolling
on the fly. So you're
going to learn about them
and they're going to type
in their name and all
their information, their preferred password.
And then they're going to
enroll on the fly and
sign in all at once.
This happens a lot in,
in e-banking. We want to
be able to join up
with a new bank and
do it all in an,
on the fly enrollment. So
the very first page, when
I'm anonymous, I'm going to
get a view state back
that doesn't include anything about
my identity. Right. Okay. And
that views that will be
sent and held at the
client inside of a hidden
form field. But then if
I do a postbac yeah.
And enroll them and their
identity changes, I might then
send them view state that
has, is married to their
identity. Yeah. Okay. If it's
point later on, they back
up a couple of pages,
you know how in the,
in the most browsers you
can back up and if
you go back far enough,
it'll say, Oh, I need
to post this data back
because the page that we
were on bane of my
existence, man, exactly totally sucks.
Right. And it says, I
need to post this data
back. So we're going to
go back to an anonymous
this page, but who we
are, somebody now we have
a forms. Auth cookie. Yeah.
We are. We are a
Karl. So then when that
page runs, it's going to
say view, state, user key
equals who you are, but
what's the view state that
you have saved in your
cash, right? It's an anonymous,
it's anonymous. Yeah. So then
your view state will invalid.
You'll get an invalid view
state. It's going to kick
back. When most people see
in valid view state exceptions,
they usually assume that the
machine keys aren't synchronized between
two machines. Maybe I got
view state from machine one
and then posted it to
machine two. But if you're
using as, as we, as
we do, and some folks
do the view state user
key, you set that to
a known state during that
enrollment process. Even if you
set it to just like
enrollment, some, some value that
is not their name, but
maybe is the name of
the process. So what's the
long and short of this.
The long and short of
this is that if you,
if you debug by coincidence,
if you, if you know
enough to be dangerous, but
you don't really understand what's
going on. As you move
COVID around, you're going to
move your bugs around. This
is something that I posted
about literally a year ago,
I guess the beyond. This
was almost the one year
anniversary a year and three
weeks ago, but it still
comes, it still comes up.
It came up in my
life. It took me a
second to remember what was
going on. And this is
the nice thing about blogging.
Of course you can Google.
Right? Right. So, you know,
I think my brain knew
that once I'm going to
go and see if my
really did, cause I blogged
about it. But so many
people, I think debugged by,
by coincidence, right? This is
like, you know, walking into
a minefield and you make
you take three or four
steps and you don't die.
So that must mean you're
not in the mind. Yeah.
It's empirical. Exactly. You start
pushing stuff around and what's
the worst kind of bug,
right? It's a flaky. Right.
And you said, well, you
know, I, I rebooted and
darn it. It stopped and
view States one of those
things, but this is the
deal it's not flaky. It's
absolutely complete predictable view. State
exceptions happen for a reason.
It just doesn't feel like
they do because it's such
a twiddly thing. Like you
said before, it's such a,
so many variables involved, many
variables. So understanding those things,
it can make you a
more kind of effective if
debugger. And that can be
very, very frustrating. And I
think that sometimes people need
to specialize. They need to
become one kind of debugger.
Like I'm reallyGood@debugginghddpandasp.net specific stuff.
But, you know, I don't
think I could do a
lot of database debugging. I
wouldn't know where to start.
So again, where can you
send people if they're having
view state woes. So to
start with, try decoding the
views that you can pull
that view state out and
you can decode it and
go to Google and search
review, state decoder. There are
online decoders that will take
apart few state and show
you what's inside them. They'll
tell you whether or not
it was in fact invalid.
There are offline ones by
Fritz onion that you can
download and keep on your
machine to look at few
state primarily. And if you
look at my post, a
trunkster.com/c H S, there are
only so many things that
can go wrong with, with
your view state. Either you
have two machines or more,
and they do not have
their machine keys synchronized, or
you've tried to post some
view state to another page,
right? Maybe by you've hacked
around with the form. Actually,
this happened to me last
week, a fella needed to
do some integration with another
vendor, and he was going
to post a form using
asp.net. One, one, not using
cross page, post backs, anyone
to post this stuff over
to this other vendor. The
other vendor was also using
asp.net. And he was consistently
getting a view state invalid.
So they said, well, gosh,
we should just synchronize our
machine keys. Yeah, well, but
this vendor is going to
integrate with other companies. Does
that mean that suddenly everyone
who wants to use this
vendors, integration methodology should use
his machine key. Right? So
how do we fix it?
Well, we tried turning off
few state, but of course,
you know, you can only
turn it off so much
and there's always one or
two small bits of you
state. You can't really turn
it off. So we ended
up adding a little JavaScript
that would actually blow away
the view state when this
form got submitted. So then
no view state was sent
over to the other machine.
So you're mucking with it.
Yeah, we were hacking it,
but that was the reasonable
thing to do. Other, other
than making this page that
was sourcing this, this form,
not a, a, an asp.net
forum. Scott, I want to
take a minute here to
remind the listeners that Hansel
minutes would not be possible
without the generous support of
our sponsors. And one of
those sponsors is automated QA.
They make a great product
called test complete, which is
a testing tool that covers
windows apps, web apps, dot
net framework apps, and Java
apps. It's, it's a complete
solution. And we'd really like
everybody right now to go
to automated qa.com checkout test
complete and tell them thanks
for supporting Hansel minutes. Is
there any way to know,
I don't know what the
answer to this is, but
is there any way you
can think of to make
the whole view state thing
work better if you attack
the problem at a lower
level, perhaps? Well, that's a
very good question. The thing
is that the information has
to be kind of along
with the page. It is
the state of the view
for that particular page. It's
really the HTTP spec. That's
the cause of all this
problem, right? It could put
all that stuff in a
header, right? A cookie wouldn't
be appropriate because cookies are
not on a per page
basis. They're on a per
domain or per virtual directorate
basis. And you couldn't just
like, you couldn't just ask
the world to change. HDDP.
I mean, this is, we're
talking about a change, a
fundamental change to the protocol
or Kenya. Well, I think
it's too late. I mean,
there will be a new
version of HTP just like
version of IP, right. IPV
six. Right. But it won't
be backward compatible necessarily. And
there will always be layers
of  that we just
can't do anything about it.
I mean, HDP is great.
It just it's stainless. It
was meant to push pages
around. So physicists could look
at information. Exactly. And it's
interesting, because years ago we
were all using 32 70.
Right. Right. For those who
don't know, 30 to 70,
it's basically like bulletin boards,
you would log in and
you'd get control code sent
to the screen. And basically
the screen was sent to
you a poor man's X
windows. Basically. It was like
logging into a bulletin board
system, basic mainframe kind of
right. And that basically remoted
the UI, but the client
didn't do any work. So
then in the eighties and
nineties, we switched over to
this client server thing where
we had VB  and
you know, the Dan Appleman
years when we had grids
and such, and we would
transmit only data from the
SQL servers. And yeah. And
Appleman would take offense to
you saying his years are
over. Oh, no, I don't
mean to say is here's
Rover. I do. I met
Dan Appleman at a, at
a tech ed and I
took him to lunch and
I just worshiped the ground.
He walks on The golden
years of Dan Appleman. But
I mean, that's like saying
it's over for Jerry Lewis, right.
Jerry Lewis. Isn't dead. Is he?
I know what to tell
you the truth. I'm embarrassed
to say. I don't know.
Well, assuming that Jerry Lewis isn't
dead. I don't think so.
Dan Appleman was a, what
was a legend and will
be a legend once again.
Yeah. Anyway, so we went
into this world where we're
moving data from place to
place. And then we went
into HDDP and folks thought
that it was a step
forward, but it's not now
we're just pushing user interface
around again. Right. Except the
user of interfaces, angle brackets,
and Ajax is kind of
the redheaded stepchild of, of
HTTP where it's like, well,
we can't quite get what
we want and we don't
quite have a fat client,
but we have kind of
a chubby client. And, you
know, do you really feel
that your, a penny and
four is working hard right
now? Yeah, no, it's, it's,
it's absolutely hanging out and
people hate asp.net and post
backs and, and Microsoft for
that matter because they don't
understand what the intent was.
What would have been a
better way to build a
state machine, to him, to
give the, the VB developers
of the day, the feeling
of inventing, how do you
do a text change event
over a stateless protocol? It
seems to be the best
implementation you can come up
with them. Other than, as
I mentioned before, you know,
actually changing HDDP, you know,
at attacking, you can either
attack it at a lower
level, which is more difficult
and has its own problems
or you bolt on exactly.
Cause that's what we've done.
We bolted on. Now that
said there are some hacky
and interesting ways that you
can make view state work
for you. David yak, and
a number of MVPs myself
included have got a book
coming out that will be
available@techedcalledasp.net 2.0 MVP hacks. And
this book has a section
on screwing around with view
state, basically a chapter on
how to mess with view
state. And right now view
state of course comes along
with the page, but there's
lots of tools and things
that you could use to
hide the view state elsewhere.
You can search for this
on Google. You can find
places where people store view
state in the session object.
Yeah. I've started that database.
You've done that kind of
start to files. Yep. Put
in files. That book is
available@shrinks.com slash C I K.
That'll be also out at
tech ed. David Jack will
be there. He's just a
new, I'm a new RD
now, new regional director for
Microsoft. Congratulations to David. And
just the fact that people
have taken time to hack
it and not completely give
up on it shows how
kind of fundamental to what
we win. That it is
to the entire framework. It
is needed to make a
venting work cleanly. Excellent. Now,
if you abandon the entire
eventing model and asp.net, sure.
You can get away with
that few state. Okay. Hey,
switching gears for a minute.
What is fusion? Ah, fusion
is the thing that resolves
assemblies. When you have, when
you say a dynamically load,
something, if you've ever done
like assembly dot load, or
if you, for the very
first time used the reference
and.net is going to load
a library, assembly fusion is
the thing that looks around
for that information, right? Even
if you have a.net exe,
when you load the exe,
the first thing that loads
up is native code that
loads the CLR and all
that stuff. Once the dotnet
CLR is loaded. Once the
native code has brought the
CLR locally, all references to
assemblies are handled by fusion
and few. And I think
if you go into the
windows directory, which I'll do
right now, and I'll just
go into windows and I'll
look into microsoft.net and I'll
go into the framework directory
and I'll just search for
F U S slash S.
So DIR F U S
start at star slash S
I see fusion dot DLL.
This, this DLL gets loaded
up into memory is responsible
for all these different resolutions.
This is we've resolved. Libraries.
Is this native or managed?
This is well fusion itself.
I don't know. That's a
very good question. I know
it was, I was largely
written by a woman named
Suzanne cook, I believe. And,
but that's that's, as far
as I know about its
history, Oh, we'll find out.
We'll tell you next week.
Okay. So when you load
an assembly, right. You know
how the assembly loader works,
it looks in the current
directory, it looks in the
GAC and there's all these
rules around. What do you
want versus what are you
going to get? Right? So
your, your application could request
version one, but you could
have code in the app
dot config file that says,
no, no, you're not going
to get version one. You're
going to get version one,
one, right? Redirection, exactly binding
redirection. You can use a
publisher policy. Peter Blom uses
this very wisely when he
releases new versions of his
tools, such that he adds
them to the GAC and
includes publisher policy to indicate
that existing applications that were
compiled against one version will
in fact, get the new
bug fixed version and they
don't have to recompile right
now. The fusion loader can
be very confusing because oftentimes
when you're trying to do
any kind of dynamic loading,
when you're trying to ask
the system to give you
a DLL and you don't
get it, it can be
very, very frustrating. It can
be very confusing, cause there's
so many things that could
go wrong. And there's a
really great workshop that Richard Grimes
put up@shrinkstir.com slash C H
U absolutely phenomenal explanation of
how the fusion system works.
And it's, step-by-step about the
different locations that dotnet looks
for assemblies tools that you
can use to kind of
resolve some of these problems.
Particularly one that comes with
a.net called the fusion log
viewer, F U S log
VW. You've got this on
your machine already. And you
can search for enabling fusion
on Google. And there's just
a registry key that you
set up. I usually just
keep this on all the
time. And this is a
tool that will automatically dump
out log files for all
assembly loads that fail on
your, on your system. Wow,
this is deep. This is
like a book online. This
guy is absolutely brilliant. And
there was a time, a
couple of couple of months
ago where he put up
a thing at the top
saying it was going away,
literally that it was disappearing.
And that Mike, you know,
I wasn't clear whether Microsoft
was shutting him down and
I just went nuts and
started emailing people. I knew
at Microsoft, we gotta keep
this guy up. So take
a look at his stuff,
scroll down to the very
bottom. And there's a section
on PayPal. This is a
book. If it was published
as a book, you pay
50 bucks for it. And
this is the kind of
thing that you'd take a
two week seminar on, right?
The amount of effort this
guy has put into this
is unreal. I have not
found anywhere, even in Don
boxers books or Jeffrey Richter's
books, a better explanation of
how fusion works than this
place. So he's got my
50 bucks. Yeah, absolutely brilliant.
I wish there was a
way to download it, but
if people did, they would
go and they they'd steal
it. He's even got it.
Completely updated for version two
of.net. And it explains exactly
how fusion works. Now, it's
one of those fusions. One
of those things where if
you don't have a problem
with it, thank yourself. Because
we always say that.net, a
hides, DLL, hell, but there's
another hell it's called assembly.
Hell yeah. right.net. Doesn't hide
DLL. Hell it takes it
off the backs of the
user and puts it on
the back of the developer.
Being an effective debugger within.net
means understanding fusion. If you're
doing any kind of dynamic
binding of stuff, which actually
gets me into another thing
about really dynamic things that
happen within.net, which is like
debugging XML. Serializers if you
use the XML sterilizer before,
right? Sure. Works absolutely phenomenally
until it completely doesn't work
at all. Right. And there's
another one of those black
box things. It is, it
is. Cause what's it doing?
It's looking at your object,
gleaning, how it's going to
serialize it, taking a good
guess and getting it right.
99% of the time until
it gets entirely wrong. A
really, really interesting thing to
try is debugging into an
XML serializer because when you
say XML, serializer equals new
XML, serializer, X dot serialize,
a lot of stuff happens.
Basically a miracle happens and
then a whole pile of
code gets generated. They reflect
over your object and they
generate code. You can see
that code by making in
your app config file, right?
And your, your application dot
exe dot config, adding a
diagnostic switch called XML, servitization
dot compilation and setting its
value to some value. That's
not zero. I've got this
up on my blog. This
is an older post at
shrinks.com/c H X. You're really
going to try this. I
encourage you to try this
first. You set this up,
you run your application. I
gave a very trivial example
already done for you. You
compile and you run and
you step up when the
debugger right up to the
line where the serializer is
constructed. Yeah. Step over the
line where they make the
serializer and then go poking
around and documents and settings
deep in the bowels, under
local settings temp, you're going
to see a bunch of
created dot CS files. Even
if you're using VB open
up that file. And you're
going to see Microsoft dot
XML dot serialization dot generated
assembly in a new namespace.
And you're going to see
a whole pile of code
generated specific to your object.
Now here's the cool part.
If you set a break
point in that generated file,
the PDBs are in there
too, right? The programmable debug
databases are in there. So
you can then serialize and
then debugging into the serializer.
And when the serializer is
not working, and this is
another thing, the XML, serializers
a thing that I know
that people get very frustrated
with. They get angry with
it, just like they do
with view state, but you
can see what's going on.
I've been fighting with the
serializer for two years. We
use it a lot at
Kirlian and we struggle with
it. If I couldn't debug
into it, I'd be very
frustrated. But the fact that
I can go in and
say, Oh, I see what
the serializers getting wrong. And
then I could come up
with ways to give it
what it wants. It's not
perfect, but it's not a
black box. It's kind of
a gray box. Wow. That's,
that's incredible. You know, I
can always count on you
to find visibility tools, tools
that help you see into
those black boxes. And I
Like that. That's really handsome,
Wants visibility tools. That's that's
true. I mean, you introduced
me to file Mon basically,
which is the file monitor.
If people don't know what
that is, anytime you an
application hangs, this is, I
was just using this right.
And application hangs. You don't
know why it's accessing the
disc. You know, you want
to see what it's doing.
So Then it's doing the
lights or flights or flash
and it must be You
run file Mon. And it
basically is like a tracer
for all file activity. And
it tells you what apps
are loading, what files. And
that way you can sort
of see what it's doing.
Yeah. Regimen does the same
thing for the registry. Yeah.
I was struggling with some
stuff with a stupid little
shareware application. I just could
not figure out what they
must've been looking for something
and they couldn't find it.
And they would freak out.
And I got to find
out the keys they were
poking around looking for. And
this is the thing for
being a good, I call
it being a good dotnet
citizen. I've got a blog
about this at shrinks, your.com/chv.
Your debugging really are about
you understanding what's happening because
we all know that.net is
managed spackle, right? It's it's,
it's spackling over Were all
of the, And when 32,
I mean, 32 was not
fun. And dotnet hides that
from us. But somebody has
got a call load library.
When you, when you say,
you know, dim X as
new objects, somebody has got
to call them low library
and forgetting that that's the
case is a mistake. I
think a lot of people
make now you don't necessarily
all have to be a
plumber and you don't have
to know how to do
that stuff. I know that
somebody has got to call,
move a X comma, you
know, CX in the assembler.
That's a little farther down
than I want to go.
I'll find someone, but it
is happening. So when people
say, Oh man, it worked
yesterday. It didn't work today.
There is a reason. Yeah.
You just got to go
down a couple levels. Yeah,
Exactly. And reformatting or paving
your machine. Even though I
did it last month, when
you don't know what's wrong,
you know, if you get
a spot in your carpet,
you fixed the spot, you
don't lay new carpet. Right.
So it's a pretty decent
analogy. So if you really
understand your environment, you can
understand what your program's dependencies
are, you know, and debug
that assert it's something. I
don't think enough people yet.
Yeah. That's a good point.
Debug dot assert to actually
stop the, stop the program
and say, Hey programmer, you
got a problem here. When
people would try to write
overly defensive code and they'll
have all sorts of, if
this is now that that
is no, but they don't
ever have anything. They don't
ever say what they're going
to do about it. They'll
just say, Oh crap, this
is no, what are you
gonna do while you continue
running? And you freak out.
But if you get into
a situation where something's no,
and there's no chance in
hell that your system should
be returning, not at that
point. Yeah. Express that, express
that in the code and
don't express it in the
code by popping up a
message, box your shirt. You
know, if your system has
three States that it could
be in, and one of
the States is completely invalid,
assert that express that anything
that your system should not
be doing, you need to
express and debug. That assert
is a really great way
to All right. Let's move
on to yet. Y a
T T. So everything at
pocket pocket, souq.com is Brian.
This is Simon fell. And
yet is yet another trace
tool. You probably use trace
tools like Ethereum. There's lots
of tools or windows network
monitor, but this is kind
of like red Mon or
file Mon for the network.
Okay. That is yet another
trace tool. He's also got
a number of other tools
out there like proxy trace
and TCP trace. And these
are tools that let you
see the traffic that are
going to, and from your
system. I like yet because
it's nice and simple. It's,
it's very basic gooey. It
shows to and fro, and
you can say only show
me things on this network
card, going to that host.
So recently when I was
building a, a baby webcam,
so I could see benzo
from work, I wanted to
debug into this inexpensive that
I bought at Fry's electronics.
I'm going to be writing
an article about this soon,
and I've just fired up
yet. And what I thought
was going to be a
video stream from this cheapo,
a webcam in fact, turned
out to be an HTTP
stream that would never end,
but just went JPEG, JPEG,
JPEG, JPEG, JPEG, it's called
M JPEG. It's not MPEG.
It's M JPEG, which is
basically all throw you JP
Eggs, as fast as you
can draw sort of a
brute force method of video.
Yeah. Brute force. But this
is the thing I was
thinking, why is this, why
are they doing this? If
they had to do a
video codec like pressure decompressor,
they need to pay somebody.
Yeah. But I bet you
it's free to throw JPEGs
around. Well, that makes sense.
Yeah, it totally does. Yeah.
This is what I mean
by visibility tools, you know,
knowing what's going on under
the hood helps you solve
the problem faster. Totally, totally.
Recently, a guy came to
me here at Karelian with
a really weird problem. I
love it. When people come
to me with weird problems
and he, he had installed
a web service on his
machine. Everything has worked fine
on six different machines, but
on this machine, it wasn't
happening. He decided to browse
to the ASM X file
and he got four Oh
four and he looked in
the directory and the files
were there and he looked
and I S and the
files were there and it
just wasn't, it wasn't happening.
So it's like, well, who's
returning the four Oh four.
We kind of asked ourselves.
It's probably, I S probably
not asp.net. That was saying
four Oh four, because we
knew the file was there.
And it wasn't a 500.
It wasn't saying the DLL
is not compiling. Or the
code's boogered. It said four
Oh four, not found, not
found, something's not found. Right.
So there's your first tip,
right? And this is the
thing. When people have problems
like this as to say
is what is the error
message I'm giving me provided
providing me value is the
error message I'm being given,
providing me value four Oh
four is saying, I'm not
finding something. So then understanding
how asp.net plugs into IAS
was a first step. So
we went into the IIS
manager, we right, clicked on
the folder. We hit properties
and went to configuration and
notice that the ASM X
extension was not mapped. So
I asked, didn't know how
to handle ASMs. This is
a real common thing. If
you install IIS after, after
they install. Exactly. So we
go out and we type
in ASP, net,  installs
asp.net. So then I'm thinking,
Oh, well, I've done this
10 times before I'm done.
Right. And you're thinking the
same thing. I am. We
visited four Oh four. The
next thing I would do
is check the version. Okay.
So we go in and
we check the version. It's
version one, one, that's the
right version. We don't have
to Oh, on this machine.
Okay. That's cool. They're mapped.
The, the extensions are mapped
correctly. Four Oh four, then
I'm thinking, well, and this
is where I wasn't thinking
clearly, maybe the ASP net
user has no access. So
I started assigning access to
the net user in this
case network service, because it
was windows 2003. Okay. So
then I'm thinking, wait, wait
a second. That would have
been a four Oh three.
That would have been a,
not a forbidden. Right. That's
right. And then I said,
well, wait a second. I
didn't just assign access to
the ASP net user, because
that would be on windows,
XP pro I assigned access
to the network service user.
Then I was reminded I'm
on a windows 2003 machine.
And what does 2003 do
with asp.net? Yeah. There's another
account for that. Isn't there.
Yeah. It's the network service
network. Right. But it was
that windows 2003 disables, asp.net
by the flow. Sure. Under
their extension stuff. And I
asked by they disabled everything
by default ASP and ASP
net. They lock it down.
So I had to go
into the extensions and explicitly
allow it, then it worked.
So there were actually two
things wrong and they were
kind of hiding each other,
but you had to kind
of do the root cause
to figure this out. And
it's, it's funny how one
will find themselves, you know,
twiddle a bit, hit F
five twiddle a bit, put
F sure. It's expecting a
different result each time. And
I, I did it in
this case as well. It's
an old story that I've
told many times, but, you
know, we used to be
surgeons back in the days
of, of Dawson, single process
stuff, where we didn't have
multi multitasking going on, you
write some code, you have
control of the machine until
you release it. You know?
And, and now increasingly we,
but with windows and multithreading
and all this stuff, you're
more like a psychologist. You
know, you, you spend some
time with the computer. You
make, you, you have a
conversation, you make some suggestions,
you observe the behavior, you
prescribe some meds, you know,
you, you come back it's
it's you're right. It's an
empirical kind of thing. It
feels like, you know, I
used to say CSI, you
know, dot net. It's, it's,
it's putting all the clues
together and say, you're trying
to tell me something, you
know, it's like cold case.
Yeah. Okay. And on that
note, we have a show.
It's been a little bit
of a long one, but
we, we think the listeners
will appreciate it. And Scott
have a, have a great
week and we'll talk to
the listeners next week on
Hanselman.